# Reading 01

*Readings for class 1 of CF301*


## Shay Howe’s intro to RWD
Responsive web design refers to a philosophy where websites react quickly and positiviely to any change, while adaptive indicates that they're easily modified for a new purpose or situation. Responsive fluidly changes based on many factors while adatives sites have a group of preset factors. Finally, mobile refers to the act of building a seperate website entirely for mobile use, which, while occasionally viable, isn't often a great idea. Responsive web design is comprisd of three main componenets: flexible layouts, media queries and flexible media.
- Flexible Layout: Don't use fixed measurement units, pixels or inches, as the viewport continually changes. The formula used to identify proportions of a flexible layout is : (target/context) = result

- Media queries: Media queries provide the ability to specify different styles for individual browser and device circumstances, i.e viewport width or device orientation. Media queries can include a type, things like all, screen, print, tv, braille, etc. but the default is screen. Max/min-width and height, as well as many other max/min values. 

- Flexible media: Getting embedded media to be fully responsive requires absolute positioning within a parent element, and the parent element can be given a width of 100%, making sure it always takes up the whole width of the screen as it changes. 

## All About Floats
Floats were initially used to emulate "text wrap" in printed works, places with images that had text wrapping around the image. If text-wrap is ignored with a floated element, the text will simple appear over the other element, as it is then taken out of "flow". Floats can be given four values: left, right, none, and inherit. Additionally to text wrapping, floats can be used to create an entire layout of a website. Float's "sister property" is clear, which causes an element to not move up to be adjacent to the float as it normally would. Both is the most commonly used value for clear, but it can also take left, right and none as well. Float elements also have no intrinsic height, so if a parent element is made up only of floats, it's height will be collapsed to 0, however clearing the float the comes after the other elements but before the container closes can fix this issue. While clear:both; used on a known succeeding element can fix this issue, sometimes we don't have a final element like that, and need to get creative. The empty div method, while scorned by "purists" because it adds in extra, seemingly unnecessary code, but it simple means to add a new div after the final float element and use clear both on it. The overflow property can also be set to auto or hidden to make the parent element adjust, but if a new div has to be applied to make this work it's not much better than the empty div method, and it can hide content or trigger unwanted scrollbars in the material. Finally, using the pseudo selector :after to apply a small bit of content, hidden from view after the parent element which will clear the float, however this takes some additional work to work on older browsers. A few common problems with floats: *pushdown*, is the width of a child element is larger than the parent it will be pushed outside the parent but overflow:hidden; will cut off the excess, *Double Margins* are another IE6 problem, any margins in the same direction as float will double the margin, but display:inline; can be  quick fix for this, next the *3px jog*, which is when text next to a floated element is mysteriously pushed away 3px, a set width or height on the affected text can fix this though, and finally in IE7 the Bottom Margin Bug where a floated parent w/ floated children will ignore the bottom margin on those children, using bottom padding on the parent instead of margin on the children should work.

