# 401-42 Readings

## The code I’m still ashamed of
[Link](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e/)

The Ethics in the Workplace article "The code I'm still ashamed of" was a really heavy read for me, with a history of taking some prescription medication and feeling lied to but much of the advertising coming out of the medical world, it's definitely something that's crossed my mind before. I never really thought though about being asked to create a site for such a company, or how those kind of advertising tactics that make me really uncomfortable and feel intrinsically deceitful might be asked of me going into this new career. I agree heavily with the article that we have a moral responsibility as people who will inevitably be involved in the marketing of products and services to be conscious of the things we do for work and the effects that work might have. Bill Sourer seems like a really good force in the push for ethics but it's sad to see his cynical stance on Bootcamps, though I can understand why Bootcamps on the whole have the reputation they do, many of them do seem fairly seedy. I hope that as time progresses the Bootcamps out to make a quick buck with low effort will be weeded out, I feel Code Fellows is a really respectable institution and so are many other coding bootcamps I have heard of, just sad to see all of them so commonly lumped together.

## Amazon workers demand Jeff Bezos cancel “Recognition” software
[Link](https://gizmodo.com/amazon-workers-demand-jeff-bezos-cancel-face-recognitio-1827037509)

I also found the article about the calls from 2018 for Jeff Bezos to suspend his Facial Recognition software contracts with the police. In June he actually suspended them for a year with everything going on, so it is definitely quite timely again. I think facial recognition software is a pretty terrifying tool to be perfectly honest, and it's so easily abused by people in power that I really do think Jeff Bezos should at least think a bit more critically about the ways that his software is being used. But in fear of getting a bit too political I'll just say that I agree he should not just suspend but end his contracts to provide Facial Recognition to any governing bodies. Microsoft's 8 million dollar ICE contract is also concerning in this regard, though I think the result is slightly less insidious, but still I think these companies have a larger moral obligation then they often uphold.

## Big Data is our Civil Rights issue
[Link](http://solveforinteresting.com/big-data-is-our-generations-civil-rights-issue-and-we-dont-know-it/)

In the other category, I found the article about Big Data to be an especially interesting read. I find it fascinating how quickly data has grown and morphed as a commodity, and it's interesting to see some of the backstory to why that wasn't so much of a thing before things like cloud storage. But far more interesting is the idea of "collect first ask questions later" in regards to gathering user data, I mean it is obvious when you think about it that that's the model in use but I guess I just never stopped to think about the fact that most companies specializing in data gathering (or even not since many/most websites probably do the same) just take everything and figure out how to use it later. On top of that, I've never really mentally bridged the gap between "Personalization" and discrimination as the author draws it, but it seems inevitable with how amorally so many companies behave. The idea that we should try to move to a model of tying data to permissions, whos allowed to see/use what, is interesting but also seems largely impractical for the reasons the author points out. I think that issue is going to come much more front and center as we move forward, the idea of "Big data" even being an industry is really young and already so riddled with concerning traits, it'll be interesting to see how it all evolves. I definitely agree with the author that this is a huge problem we need to be thinking about with a balance of encryption/permissions and government legislation, at least to do what we can.