# Day 06 Readings
*Readings for day 6 of class*

## Article:
### Understanding the problem domain is the hardest part of programmin
The article discusses how one of the most difficult parts of programming, especially early on, is understanding the *problem domain*, the author uses the analogy of putting together a jigsaw puzzle. It is straightforward to tackle a jigsaw puzzle when you can see the picture and know what it is supposed to look like in the end, but if that picture itself is unclear it becomes very difficult to begin putting it together. If the problem you are attmepting to tackle with your code can be clearly defined and boiled down to relatively simple ideas, it makes the whole process much easier. Alternatively, if the problem domain is reoccuring and cannot be simplified, the only other option is achieving a better understanding of that problem domain.

## JS/JQuery book:
### Chapter 3: “Object Literals” (pp.100-105)
Objects are denoted by assigning a variable to a block inside a set of {}. Inside an object, both properties and methods can be defined. Properties of the object take on the form of key-value pairs that give informaiton about the object, such as name: 'Nicco', hairColor: 'red', age: 24, and so on. Methods are inherent functions built into the objects themselves which can be inherited by later instances of the object. Dot notation can be used to access properties or methods of an object, i.e. var myName = person.name;, but you can also use square brackets, i.e. var myName = person[name];

### Chapter 5: “Document Object Model” (pp.183-242)
The Document Object Model "specifies how browsers should create a model of an HTML page and how JavaScript can access and upfate the contents.." meaning it both makes a model and can then access the content of an HTML page to make changes. It was compared to a "voodoo doll" for your website by Mason in class which is an apt comparison. DOM queries are methods used to find elements within the DOM tree such as getElementById('one') which would lok for an element(s) who's Id has a value of one. Once the node referenced is found, it can be worked with as well as it's parents or any children. These element locations can be stored in a variable if they need to be accessed more than once. Methods like getElementById() and querySelector() can parse an entire document and return individual elements. In document.getElementById('one') uses document to refer to the document object, dot notation indicates a method is being applied, and the getElementById() method indicates that we're finding an element based on it's id attribute, 'one' in this case. Elements from a nodelist can be selected using the item() method or array syntax. Programmers often check there is at least one item in a nodelist before running any code, so they use the length property and check that it is greater than 1. Array syntax is faster than than the item method however, instead of elements.item(0), we can write elements[0] like we've been doing. Loops can be used to repeat actions for multiple items or an entire nodelist. Two different approaches can be used to add or remove any HTML content, the innerHTML property and DOM manipulation. DOM manipulation is better for individual nodes in the DOM tree, and innerHTML is better suited to updated entire fragments of HTML. Once we have an element node, we can get more specific with attribute nodes, using several attrbite selectors including .getAttribute() and .hasAttribute(), or you cna change an attribute using things like .setAttribute() and .removeAttribute(), within these you can use id or classname depending on which you'd like to access.